CS 386 – Software Engineering
Team Project – D.1 Inception
Grading: 30 points

In this deliverable, you report the results of the software inception. Structure your deliverable using the following sections.

Introduction: describe in one paragraph what your project is about. Make it clear what problem your software is solving and the context of the solution.

	We believe that many people struggle to find the time to track how many hours of pay must be on their next paycheck. Some of us will blindly accept a paycheck without confirming we’re being paid fully. We believe we have come up with a solution to easily confirm the legitimacy of your paychecks. Money Monkey is a web app that displays how much money the user has made so far in a certain work shift. This program runs in the background, changing by the cent every second. Users are able to log their hours to keep track of hours per pay period. While in a shift, users are able to pause the clock for a break. When employees receive a paycheck, they input the start and end dates of their pay period into Money Monkey. Our program will output the amount of hours worked and the gross pay (w or w/out overtime) that should match the paycheck. 

Grading criteria (5 points): Your paragraph should be well written in formal language and must contain all the required information. Be clear, concise, and check for typos and grammar errors. 

Initial value proposition and customer segments: report the initial guesses for the (i) value proposition and (ii) customer segment. The value proposition should make clear what your product is, the target customer, the value you provide, and why your product is unique. See examples on the lecture slides.
(i) Value proposition
Keeping track of the resources customers have 
Confirming earnings 
Saving time so they don't have to calculate
Easier calculations 
Makes you feel cool
Simple way to see how much you earn

(ii) Customer Segments
Hourly employees 
College students
Highschool students 
Retail employees
Interns 
Food industry workers 
Grading criteria (5 points): The value proposition should make clear the value from the point of view of the customer. It should not be a slogan or a description of functionality. The value proposition and consumer segment should be coherent with the text in the previous section---in particular, the value should address the problem reported above (problem-solution fit). The customer segment should not be too broad or too specific. 

Interviews summary: present the results of each interview (the minimum number of interviews is 1.5 * the number of participants in the group). 
For each interview, report:
Who was interviewed and who participated in the interview
When
Customer segment
Key insights from the interview
Representative quotes
Assessment: Must have / Nice to have / Don’t care (how the interviewee sees the solution)

1. Shayne Sellner 09/23/2022  - Nile 
Shayne is currently an at-home researcher for Tucson Embedded Systems. His company requires him to submit his hours weekly through a timesheet portal in which he logs himself. He currently uses a google doc to keep track of his hours. “I’m not concerned much with payment as of now because I make my own hours, but when I worked at Walgreens I remember constantly worrying about being scammed by my boss.” I think that Money Monkey is Nice to have for Shayne because it will  add up his shift hours for him. 

6. Sarah Louangkhot 09/21/2022 - Rain
Sarah is a sales associate at Tillys in Mays Landing. They use an ADP website to clock in and out on their hours and keep track of their total time. They mentioned that they are concerned about the calculations being correct, but did not care if they were minor miscalculations. They also mentioned that they let a friend of theirs help calculate their total hours of the week, who takes about an average of 5 minutes to calculate the total. When asked what they would do if they found out they were being incorrectly payed on their wage, they would contact either their boss or the higher ups to get it sorted out. The overall assessment for this interview is Don’t Care.

7. Kayden Vicenti 09/22/2022 - Rain
Kayden is a drone specialist at Northern Arizona University. She clocks in on a website that lets her manually edit certain weeks or calculations for her hours. She said that she is very worried about miscalculations occurring in her hours, and was not very confident that it will always get them correct. Because of this, she also manually calculates all of her hours to be certain she gets her fair wage. She said that she does not work overtime, but an error occurred once in her hours where the website did not properly clock out and tracked extra hours after her shift, but was able to sort out the situation. She stated that she would not know what to do if she was given miscalculated pay for her shift. The assessment for this interview would be somewhere between Don’t Care and Nice to Have, since she was able to manually fix the errors that occurred for her hours.

8. Lauren R. (9/22/2022)- Naima
Lauren is a cashier at Dunkin Donuts. She physically clocks in on the register when she gets to work. Pay stubs are printed out when she clocks out. They display the start time and total hours. Lauren does not agree with how her overtime is calculated because it is carried on to the next pay roll period. She is not concerned about her check is calculated because she can always check on a federal website, the amount of hours she worked and her pay. She keeps track of her hours mentally because it only requires some quick calculations to see if her pay is correct. She said “ I can usually do some quick math and find that my paycheck is roughly correct”. If she was being shorted, she would speak with her manager to fix the issue. She mentioned that there would be no hostile confrontation. The assessment for this interview is Don’t care.

9. Brian W.(9/21/2022) - Naima
Brian is an associate at a grocery store. He said the time tracking system works in conjunction with the badge clock. It tracks the time worked when you clock in or out. He said he is not worried about how his check is tracked because ADP is used at his workplace. His gross pay is calculated on his check along taxes. He said there is an app for ADP but he does not use it because it is just a convenience. It takes minimal effort to login to ADP on a search browser. He said “it literally only takes 1 minute to check when I clock in”.  Brian also mentioned that he keeps tracks of his hours with the tracking information system that is provided. He said it only takes about 30 minutes a week to do calculations to make sure his hours and check are correct. At his job overtime was calculated by working over 8 hours in a shift. If he was being shorted, he said he would speak to his manager and ask for compensation. The assessment for this interview was Don’t care. 

10. Marina Davis (9/22/22) - Regan
- Marina works as an hourly employee in her father’s company, which uses an electronic login with a fingerprint to mark start and end times for a shift. In previous jobs she has been concerned about how her paycheck was calculated, citing a time she worked extra hours but got paid for a normal shift; even though she has more trust in her current job, she now double-checks all her paychecks to make sure they are correct. Marina manually keeps track of her own hours and estimates that she spends about 10 minutes per week doing so. Last time her paycheck was below what she deserved, she had to go bring it up with her supervisor. She said “I’d push to go above him if needed to make sure I get what I’m owed”. While talking about her methods of tracking her own hours and pay, Marina said she’d find it useful if she had an app on her phone to keep track of these things for her. The assessment for this interview was Must Have.
11. Capri Kalvelage (9/23/22) - Regan
- Capri works as a cashier at a restaurant in Phoenix. Her employer uses a time tracking system that allows employees to clock in starting five minutes before their shift, and they must manually clock out when they leave. She is concerned about how her check is calculated: “sometimes we pick up shifts for each other, or we can’t clock in or forget to clock out, and the records get weird”. Still, she’s usually confident that her check is correct, and said “if there’s an issue, I’m usually aware of it”. Capri stated that she used to keep track of her own hours; however, she stopped because “it got too tedious”; she would spend about half an hour per week between checking her bank account or calculating her paycheck. If she knew she was being shorted on her paycheck, she’d go bring it up with her supervisor, which she estimated would be either easy or difficult depending on which supervisor she had that day. Capri would use a system that tracked these things for her and told her what she’d earn, but only if it were managed by a third party and not her employer’s system, since that would leave it prone to the same mistakes as the original timekeeping system. The assessment for this interview was Nice To Have.






Grading criteria (15 points): You should have at least the required number of interviews. For each interview, you should report the required information. The insight should be grounded on the interview and illustrated by the representative quotes. 

Final value proposition and consumer segments: report the refined versions of these elements (the ones that you reached after the interviews). 

Value proposition:
1. Ease of tracking work hours
2. Ease of calculating amount of hours in a time period.
3. Saves time and stress for the user
4. Ease of confirming paychecks for legitimacy

Consumer Segment:
Our main demographic includes college students and young adults who are hourly employees and may have difficulty keeping tracking of their hours worked and gross pay.


